---
title: "C/C++ Properties (Linux C++) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "9/26/2017"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: ["vs-ide-general"]
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 4bb8894b-c874-4a68-935e-b127d54e484f
author: "mikeblome"
ms.author: "mblome"
manager: "ghogen"
f1_keywords: [VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.AdditionalIncludeDirectories, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.DebugInformationFormat, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.ObjectFile, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.WarningLevel, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.WarnAsError, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.AdditionalWarning, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.Verbose, VC.Project.VCConfiguration.BuildLogFile, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.Optimization, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.StrictAliasing, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.UnrollLoops, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.LinkTimeOptimization, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.OmitFramePointers, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.NoCommonBlocks, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.PIC, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.ThreadSafeStatics, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.RelaxIEEE, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.HideInlineMethods, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.SymbolsHiddenByDefault, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.ExceptionHandling, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.RuntimeTypeInfo, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.CLanguageStandard, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.CppLanguageStandard, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.PreprocessorDefinitions, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.UndefinePreprocessorDefinitions, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.UndefineAllPreprocessorDefinitions, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.ShowIncludes, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.CompileAs, VC.Project.VCClangCompilerTool.ForcedIncludeFiles, vc.project.AdditionalOptionsPage]
ms.workload: ["cplusplus", "linux"]
---

# C/C++ Properties (Linux C++)

## General
Property | Description | Choices
--- | ---| ---
Additional Include Directories | Specifies one or more directories to add to the include path; separate with semi-colons if more than one. (-I[path]).
Debug Information Format | Specifies the type of debugging information generated by the compiler. | **None** - Produces no debugging information, so compilation may be faster.<br>**Minimal Debug Information** - Generate minimal debug information.<br>**Full Debug Information (DWARF2)** - Generate DWARF2 debug information.<br>
Object File Name | Specifies a name to override the default object file name; can be file or directory name. (-o [name]).
Warning Level | Select how strict you want the compiler to be about code errors.  Other flags should be added directly to Additional Options. (/w, /Weverything). | **Turn Off All Warnings** - Disables all compiler warnings.<br>**EnableAllWarnings** - Enables all warnings, including those disabled by default.<br>
Treat Warnings As Errors | Treats all compiler warnings as errors. For a new project, it may be best to use /Werror in all compilations; resolving all warnings will ensure the fewest possible hard-to-find code defects.
C Additional Warnings | Defines a set of additional warning messages.
C++ Additional Warnings | Defines a set of additional warning messages.
Enable Verbose mode | When Verbose mode is enabled, this tool would print out more information that for diagnosing the build.
C Compiler | Specifies the program to invoke during compilation of C source files, or the path to the C compiler on the remote system.
C++ Compiler | Specifies the program to invoke during compilation of C++ source files, or the path to the C++ compiler on the remote system.
Compile Timeout | Remote compilation timeout, in milliseconds.
Copy Object Files | Specifies whether to copy the compiled object files from the remote system to the local machine.

## Optimization
Property | Description | Choices
--- | ---| ---
Optimization | Specifies the optimization level for the application. | **Custom** - Custom optimization.<br>**Disabled** - Disable optimization.<br>**Minimize Size** - Optimize for size.<br>**Maximize Speed** - Optimize for speed.<br>**Full Optimization** - Expensive optimizations.<br>
Strict Aliasing | Assume the strictest aliasing rules.  An object of one type will never be assumed to reside at the same address as an object of a different type.
Unroll Loops | Unroll loops to make application faster by reducing number of branches executed at the cost of larger code size.
Link Time Optimization | Enable Inter-Procedural optimizations by allowing the optimizer to look across object files in your application.
Omit Frame Pointer | Suppresses creation of frame pointers on the call stack.
No Common Blocks | Allocate even unintialized global variables in the data section of the object file, rather then generating them as common blocks

## Preprocessor
Property | Description | Choices
--- | ---| ---
Preprocessor Definitions | Defines a preprocessing symbols for your source file. (-D)
Undefine Preprocessor Definitions | Specifies one or more preprocessor undefines.  (-U [macro])
Undefine All Preprocessor Definitions | Undefine all previously defined preprocessor values.  (-undef)
Show Includes | Generates a list of include files with compiler output.  (-H)

## Code Generation
Property | Description | Choices
--- | ---| ---
Position Independent Code | Generate Position Independent Code (PIC) for use in a shared library.
Statics are thread safe | Emit Extra code to use routines specified in C++ ABI for thread safe initilization of local statics. | **No** - Disable thread safe statics.<br>**Yes** - Enable thread safe statics.<br>
Floating Point Optimization | Enables floating point optimizations by relaxing IEEE-754 compliance.
Inline Methods Hidden | When enabled, out-of-line copies of inline methods are declared 'private extern'.
Symbol Hiddens By Default | All symbols are declared 'private extern' unless explicitly marked to be exported using the '__attribute' macro.
Enable C++ Exceptions | Specifies the model of exception handling to be used by the compiler. | **No** - Disable exception handling.<br>**Yes** - Enable exception handling.<br>

## Language
Property | Description | Choices
--- | ---| ---
Enable Run-Time Type Information | Adds code for checking C++ object types at run time (runtime type information).     (frtti, fno-rtti)
C Language Standard | Determines the C language standard. | **Default**<br>**C89** - C89 Language Standard.<br>**C99** - C99 Language Standard.<br>**C11** - C11 Language Standard.<br>**C99 (GNU Dialect)** - C99 (GNU Dialect) Language Standard.<br>**C11 (GNU Dialect)** - C11 (GNU Dialect) Language Standard.<br>
C++ Language Standard | Determines the C++ language standard. | **Default**<br>**C++03** - C++03 Language Standard.<br>**C++11** - C++11 Language Standard.<br>**C++14** - C++14 Language Standard.<br>**C++03 (GNU Dialect)** - C++03 (GNU Dialect) Language Standard.<br>**C++11 (GNU Dialect)** - C++11 (GNU Dialect) Language Standard.<br>**C++14 (GNU Dialect)** - C++14 (GNU Dialect) Language Standard.<br>

## Advanced
Property | Description | Choices
--- | ---| ---
Compile As | Select compile language option for .c and .cpp files.  'Default' will detect based on .c or .cpp extention. (-x c, -x c++) | **Default** - Default.<br>**Compile as C Code** - Compile as C Code.<br>**Compile as C++ Code** - Compile as C++ Code.<br>
Forced Include Files | One or more forced include files (-include [name])

## Additional Options 
