---
title: "Include cleanup messages"
description: "Learn what the messages generated by Include Cleanup mean."
ms.date: 10/10/2023
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords: ["VCIC001", "VCIC002"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["VCIC001", "VCIC002"]
---
# Include cleanup messages

This article describes the messages generated by the include cleanup feature. For more information about include cleanup, see [C/C++ include cleanup overview](include-cleanup-overview.md).

Starting with Visual Studio 17.7 preview 3, Visual Studio can clean up your `#include`s to improve the quality of your C and C++ code in the following ways:

- Offers to remove unused header files--improving build times.
- Offers to add header files for code that is only working because the needed header file is included indirectly.

You can choose whether messages from Include cleanup appear in the form of suggestions, warnings, or errors in the Error List window. The form is determined by settings in Visual Studio tools options. For more information, see [Config C/C++ include cleanup in Visual Studio](include-cleanup-config.md).

In the following screenshot of the Error List, include cleanup is configured to show unused headers with a warning:

:::image type="complex" source="media/include-cleanup-error-list.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Error List window.":::
The dropdown filter is set to Build + IntelliSense. A warning is visible: VCIC002 - #include < iostream > isn't used in this file."
:::image-end:::

Include cleanup generates the following messages:

## `VCIC001`: Content from #include is used in this file and transitively included

This message means that you're using content from a header file that is included indirectly. For example, you may be directly including a header file that also contains `#include <string>`. If you use `string` in your code, but don't `#include <string>` in that file, it works as long as the other header file continues to indirectly include `<string>` for you. This message identifies that this is going on in your code so that you can take action to directly include the transitively included header file. For more information, see [Direct vs indirect headers](include-cleanup-overview.md#direct-vs-indirect-headers).

## `VCIC002`: #include is not used in this file

This message indicates that the specified header file is not used in the current file. You can remove the associated `#include` directive to cleanup your includes and improve your build times.

## See also

[C/C++ include cleanup overview](include-cleanup-overview.md)\
[Config C/C++ include cleanup in Visual Studio](include-cleanup-config.md)