---
title: "Specify Debug Configuration Settings, Create New Project From Existing Code Files Wizard | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "vc.appwiz.importwiz.debugsettings"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
ms.assetid: 607339a8-9d33-458b-8095-dc73f374e29d
caps.latest.revision: 10
author: "mikeblome"
ms.author: "mblome"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "tr-tr"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# Specify Debug Configuration Settings, Create New Project From Existing Code Files Wizard
Use this page of the Create New Project From Existing Code Files wizard to specify Debug configuration project settings.  
  
## Task List  
 [How to: Create a C++ Project from Existing Code](../ide/how-to-create-a-cpp-project-from-existing-code.md)  
  
## UIElement List  
 **Build command line**  
 Specifies the command line that builds the new project. For example, enter the name of the compiler (plus any switches and arguments) or the build scripts that you want to use to build the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page; otherwise it is unavailable.  
  
 **Rebuild command line**  
 Specifies the command line that rebuilds the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page; otherwise it is unavailable.  
  
 **Clean command line**  
 Specifies the command line to delete support files generated by the build tools for the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page; otherwise it is unavailable.  
  
 **Output (for debugging)**  
 Specifies the directory path of the output files for the Debug configuration of the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page; otherwise it is unavailable.  
  
 **Preprocessor definitions (/D)**  
 Defines preprocessor symbols for the new project. For more information, see [/D (Preprocessor Definitions)](../build/reference/d-preprocessor-definitions.md).  
  
 **Include search path (/I)**  
 Specifies directory paths to add to the list of directories that the compiler will search to resolve file references passed to preprocessor directives in the new project. For more information, see [/I (Additional Include Directories)](../build/reference/i-additional-include-directories.md).  
  
 **Forced included files (/FI)**  
 Specifies header files to process when building the new project. For more information, see [/FI (Name Forced Include File)](../build/reference/fi-name-forced-include-file.md).  
  
 **.NET assembly search path (/AI)**  
 Specifies the directory paths that the compiler will search to resolve .NET assembly references passed to preprocessor directives in the new project. For more information, see [/AI (Specify Metadata Directories)](../build/reference/ai-specify-metadata-directories.md).  
  
 **Forced using .NET assemblies (/FU)**  
 Specifies .NET assemblies to process when building the new project. For more information, see [/FU (Name Forced #using File)](../build/reference/fu-name-forced-hash-using-file.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [Specify Project Settings, Create New Project From Existing Code Files Wizard](../ide/specify-project-settings-create-new-project-from-existing-code-files-wizard.md)