---
title: "Specify Release Configuration Settings, Create New Project From Existing Code Files Wizard | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "vc.appwiz.importwiz.releasesettings"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
ms.assetid: 3e2fc73c-bdbd-4790-b2bd-d31731f0cece
caps.latest.revision: 8
author: "mikeblome"
ms.author: "mblome"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "tr-tr"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# Specify Release Configuration Settings, Create New Project From Existing Code Files Wizard
Use this page of the Create New Project From Existing Code Files wizard to specify Release configuration project settings.  
  
## Task List  
 [How to: Create a C++ Project from Existing Code](../ide/how-to-create-a-cpp-project-from-existing-code.md)  
  
## UIElement List  
 **Same as Debug configuration**  
 Specifies that the wizard will generate Release configuration project settings identical to Debug configuration project settings. This option is checked by default. All other options on this page are inactive unless you uncheck this box.  
  
 **Build command line**  
 Specifies the command line that builds the new project. Enter the name of the compiler plus any switches or arguments that you want to use to build the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page.  
  
 **Rebuild command line**  
 Specifies the command line that rebuilds the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page.  
  
 **Clean command line**  
 Specifies the command line to delete support files generated by the build tools for the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page.  
  
 **Output (for debugging)**  
 Specifies the directory path of the output files for the Debug configuration of the new project. This option is enabled when the **Use external build system** option is selected in the **Specify Project Settings** page.  
  
 **Preprocessor definitions (/D)**  
 Defines preprocessor symbols for the new project. For more information, see [/D (Preprocessor Definitions)](../build/reference/d-preprocessor-definitions.md).  
  
 **Include search path (/I)**  
 Specifies directory paths to add to the list of directories that the compiler will search to resolve file references passed to preprocessor directives in the new project. For more information, see [/I (Additional Include Directories)](../build/reference/i-additional-include-directories.md).  
  
 **Forced included files (/FI)**  
 Specifies header files to process when building the new project. For more information, see [/FI (Name Forced Include File)](../build/reference/fi-name-forced-include-file.md).  
  
 **.NET assembly search path (/AI)**  
 Specifies the directory paths that the compiler will search to resolve .NET assembly references passed to preprocessor directives in the new project. For more information, see [/AI (Specify Metadata Directories)](../build/reference/ai-specify-metadata-directories.md).  
  
 **Forced using .NET assemblies (/FU)**  
 Specifies .NET assemblies to process when building the new project. For more information, see [/FU (Name Forced #using File)](../build/reference/fu-name-forced-hash-using-file.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [Specify Project Settings, Create New Project From Existing Code Files Wizard](../ide/specify-project-settings-create-new-project-from-existing-code-files-wizard.md)