---
title: "-favor (Optimize for Architecture Specifics)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "10/14/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "/favor"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "-favor compiler option [C++]"
  - "/favor compiler option [C++]"
ms.assetid: ad264df2-e30f-4d68-8bd0-10d6bee71a2a
caps.latest.revision: 31
ms.author: "corob"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
translation.priority.mt: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "tr-tr"
---
# /favor (Optimize for Architecture Specifics)
**/favor:** `option` produces the code that is optimized for a specific architecture or for the specifics of micro-architectures in the AMD and the Intel architectures.  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
/favor:{blend | ATOM | AMD64 | INTEL64}  
```  
  
## Remarks  
 **/favor:blend**  
 (x86 and x64) produces the code that is optimized for the specifics of micro-architectures in the AMD and the Intel architectures. While **/favor:blend** may not give the best performance possible on a specific processor, it is designed to give the best performance across a broad range of x86 and x64 processors. By default, **/favor:blend** is in effect.  
  
 **/favor:ATOM**  
 (x86 and x64) produces the code that is optimized for the specifics of the Intel Atom processor and Intel Centrino Atom Processor Technology. Code that is generated by using **/favor:ATOM** may also produce Intel SSSE3, SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions for Intel processors.  
  
 **/favor:AMD64**  
 (x64 only) optimizes the generated code for the AMD Opteron, and Athlon processors that support 64-bit extensions. The optimized code can run on all x64 compatible platforms. Code that is generated by using **/favor:AMD64** might cause worse performance on Intel processors that support Intel64.  
  
 **/favor:INTEL64**  
 (x64 only) optimizes the generated code for Intel processors that support Intel64, which typically yields better performance for that platform. The resulting code can run on any x64 platform. Code that is generated with **/favor:INTEL64** might cause worse performance on AMD Opteron, and Athlon processors that support 64-bit extensions.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Intel64 architecture was previously known as Extended Memory 64 Technology, and the corresponding compiler option was **/favor:EM64T**.  
  
 For information about how to program for the [!INCLUDE[vcprx64](../build/includes/vcprx64_md.md)] architecture, see [x64 Software Conventions](../build/x64-software-conventions.md).  
  
### To set this compiler option in the Visual Studio development environment  
  
1.  Open the project's **Property Pages** dialog box. For details, see [How to: Open Project Property Pages](../notintoc/how-to--open-project-property-pages.md).  
  
2.  Select the **C/C++** folder.  
  
3.  Select the **Command Line** property page.  
  
4.  Enter the compiler option in the **Additional Options** box.  
  
### To set this compiler option programmatically  
  
-   See \<xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.VCProjectEngine.VCCLCompilerTool.AdditionalOptions*>.  
  
## See Also  
 [Compiler Options](../buildref/compiler-options.md)   
 [Setting Compiler Options](../buildref/setting-compiler-options.md)