---
description: "Learn more about: __w64"
title: "__w64"
ms.date: "05/07/2019"
f1_keywords: ["__w64_cpp", "__w64", "_w64"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["__w64 keyword [C++]", "64-bit compiler [C++], __w64 keyword", "Win64 [C++], __w64 keyword"]
ms.assetid: b9d0c820-e132-40bc-b532-56edca132a6c
---
# __w64

This Microsoft-specific keyword is obsolete. In versions of Visual Studio earlier than Visual Studio 2013, this lets you mark variables, so that when you compile with [/Wp64](../build/reference/wp64-detect-64-bit-portability-issues.md) the compiler will report any warnings that would be reported if you were compiling with a 64-bit compiler.

## Syntax

> *type* **`__w64`** *identifier*

### Parameters

*type*<br/>
One of the three types that could cause problems in code being ported from a 32-bit to a 64-bit compiler: **`int`**, **`long`**, or a pointer.

*identifier*<br/>
The identifier for the variable you are creating.

## Remarks

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The [/Wp64](../build/reference/wp64-detect-64-bit-portability-issues.md) compiler option and **`__w64`** keyword are deprecated in Visual Studio 2010 and Visual Studio 2013 and removed starting in Visual Studio 2013. If you use the `/Wp64` compiler option on the command line, the compiler issues Command-Line Warning D9002. The **`__w64`** keyword is silently ignored. Instead of using this option and keyword to detect 64-bit portability issues, use a Microsoft C++ compiler that targets a 64-bit platform. For more information, see [Configure Visual C++ for 64-bit, x64 targets](../build/configuring-programs-for-64-bit-visual-cpp.md).

Any typedef that has **`__w64`** on it must be 32 bits on x86 and 64 bits on x64.

To detect portability issues by using versions of the Microsoft C++ compiler earlier than Visual Studio 2010, the **`__w64`** keyword should be specified on any typedefs that change size between 32 bit and 64 bit platforms. For any such type, **`__w64`** must appear only on the 32-bit definition of the typedef.

For compatibility with previous versions, **_w64** is a synonym for **`__w64`** unless compiler option [/Za \(Disable language extensions)](../build/reference/za-ze-disable-language-extensions.md) is specified.

The **`__w64`** keyword is ignored if the compilation does not use `/Wp64`.

For more information about porting to 64-bit, see the following topics:

- [MSVC Compiler Options](../build/reference/compiler-options.md)

- [Porting 32-Bit Code to 64-Bit Code](../build/common-visual-cpp-64-bit-migration-issues.md)

- [Configure Visual C++ for 64-bit, x64 targets](../build/configuring-programs-for-64-bit-visual-cpp.md)

## Example

```cpp
// __w64.cpp
// compile with: /W3 /Wp64
typedef int Int_32;
#ifdef _WIN64
typedef __int64 Int_Native;
#else
typedef int __w64 Int_Native;
#endif

int main() {
   Int_32 i0 = 5;
   Int_Native i1 = 10;
   i0 = i1;   // C4244 64-bit int assigned to 32-bit int

   // char __w64 c;  error, cannot use __w64 on char
}
```

## See also

[Keywords](../cpp/keywords-cpp.md)
