---
title: "Walkthrough: Implementing Futures | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "2018-06-30"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "implementing futures [Concurrency Runtime]"
  - "futures, implementing [Concurrency Runtime]"
ms.assetid: 82ea75cc-aaec-4452-b10d-8abce0a87e5b
caps.latest.revision: 25
author: "mikeblome"
ms.author: "mblome"
manager: "ghogen"
---
# Walkthrough: Implementing Futures
[!INCLUDE[blank_token](../../includes/blank-token.md)]

This topic shows how to implement futures in your application. The topic demonstrates how to combine existing functionality in the Concurrency Runtime into something that does more.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  This topic illustrates the concept of futures for demonstration purposes. We recommend that you use [std::future](../../standard-library/future-class.md) or [concurrency::task](../../parallel/concrt/reference/task-class-concurrency-runtime.md) when you require an asynchronous task that computes a value for later use.  
  
 A *task* is a computation that can be decomposed into additional, more fine-grained, computations. A *future* is an asynchronous task that computes a value for later use.  
  
 To implement futures, this topic defines the `async_future` class. The `async_future` class uses these components of the Concurrency Runtime: the [concurrency::task_group](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/b4af5b28-227d-4488-8194-0a0d039173b7) class and the [concurrency::single_assignment](../../parallel/concrt/reference/single-assignment-class.md) class. The `async_future` class uses the `task_group` class to compute a value asynchronously and the `single_assignment` class to store the result of the computation. The constructor of the `async_future` class takes a work function that computes the result, and the `get` method retrieves the result.  
  
### To implement the async_future class  
  
1.  Declare a template class named `async_future` that is parameterized on the type of the resulting computation. Add `public` and `private` sections to this class.  
  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures#2](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures/cpp/futures.cpp#2)]  
  
2.  In the `private` section of the `async_future` class, declare a `task_group` and a `single_assignment` data member.  
  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures#3](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures/cpp/futures.cpp#3)]  
  
3.  In the `public` section of the `async_future` class, implement the constructor. The constructor is a template that is parameterized on the work function that computes the result. The constructor asynchronously executes the work function in the `task_group` data member and uses the [concurrency::send](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/8713fb36-066b-47de-af12-589fa74805d6) function to write the result to the `single_assignment` data member.  
  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures#4](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures/cpp/futures.cpp#4)]  
  
4.  In the `public` section of the `async_future` class, implement the destructor. The destructor waits for the task to finish.  
  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures#5](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures/cpp/futures.cpp#5)]  
  
5.  In the `public` section of the `async_future` class, implement the `get` method. This method uses the [concurrency::receive](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/f36bbca1-97ac-4343-bfac-ea71ca2139e9) function to retrieve the result of the work function.  
  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures#6](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures/cpp/futures.cpp#6)]  
  
## Example  
  
### Description  
 The following example shows the complete `async_future` class and an example of its usage. The `wmain` function creates a std::[vector](../../standard-library/vector-class.md) object that contains 10,000 random integer values. It then uses `async_future` objects to find the smallest and largest values that are contained in the `vector` object.  
  
### Code  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures#1](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures/cpp/futures.cpp#1)]  
  
### Comments  
 This example produces the following output:  
  
```Output  
smallest: 0  
largest:  9999  
average:  4981  
```  
  
 The example uses the `async_future::get` method to retrieve the results of the computation. The `async_future::get` method waits for the computation to finish if the computation is still active.  
  
## Robust Programming  
 To extend the `async_future` class to handle exceptions that are thrown by the work function, modify the `async_future::get` method to call the [concurrency::task_group::wait](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/19ee5bbc-8654-40a7-9f22-d5329cec6e96) method. The `task_group::wait` method throws any exceptions that were generated by the work function.  
  
 The following example shows the modified version of the `async_future` class. The `wmain` function uses a `try`-`catch` block to print the result of the `async_future` object or to print the value of the exception that is generated by the work function.  
  
 [!code-cpp[concrt-futures-with-eh#1](../../snippets/cpp/VS_Snippets_ConcRT/concrt-futures-with-eh/cpp/futures-with-eh.cpp#1)]  
  
 This example produces the following output:  
  
```Output  
caught exception: error  
```  
  
 For more information about the exception handling model in the Concurrency Runtime, see [Exception Handling](../../parallel/concrt/exception-handling-in-the-concurrency-runtime.md).  
  
## Compiling the Code  
 Copy the example code and paste it in a Visual Studio project, or paste it in a file that is named `futures.cpp` and then run the following command in a Visual Studio Command Prompt window.  
  
 **cl.exe /EHsc futures.cpp**  
  
## See Also  
 [Concurrency Runtime Walkthroughs](../../parallel/concrt/concurrency-runtime-walkthroughs.md)   
 [Exception Handling](../../parallel/concrt/exception-handling-in-the-concurrency-runtime.md)   
 [task_group Class](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/b4af5b28-227d-4488-8194-0a0d039173b7)   
 [single_assignment Class](../../parallel/concrt/reference/single-assignment-class.md)
