> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Visual Studio compilers and build tools can report many kinds of errors and warnings. After an error or warning is found, the build tools may make assumptions about code intent and attempt to continue, so that more issues can be reported at the same time. If the tools make the wrong assumption, later errors or warnings may not apply to your project. When you correct issues in your project, always start with the first error or warning that's reported, and rebuild often. One fix may make many subsequent errors go away.

To get help on a particular diagnostic message in Visual Studio, select it in the **Output** window and press the **F1** key. Visual Studio opens the documentation page for that error, if one exists. You can also use the search tool at the top of the page to find articles about specific errors or warnings. Or, browse the list of errors and warnings by tool and type in the table of contents on this page.

> [!NOTE]
> Not every Visual Studio error or warning is documented. In many cases, the diagnostic message provides all of the information that's available. If you landed on this page when you used **F1** and you think the error or warning message needs additional explanation, let us know. You can use the feedback buttons on this page to raise a documentation issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/cpp-docs/issues). If you think the error or warning is wrong, or you've found another problem with the toolset, report a product issue on the [Developer Community](https://aka.ms/feedback/report?space=62) site. You can also send feedback and enter bugs within the IDE. In Visual Studio, go to the menu bar and choose **Help > Send Feedback > Report a Problem**, or submit a suggestion by using **Help > Send Feedback > Send a Suggestion**.

You may find additional assistance for errors and warnings in [Microsoft Learn Q&A](/answers/topics/c%2B%2B.html) forums. Or, search for the error or warning number on the Visual Studio C++ [Developer Community](https://aka.ms/vsfeedback/browsecpp) site. You can also search [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) to find solutions.

For links to additional help and community resources, see [Visual C++ Help and Community](../../overview/visual-cpp-help-and-community.md).
