---
description: "Learn more about: C/C++ Compiler and build tools errors and warnings"
title: "C/C++ build tools errors and warnings"
ms.date: "11/17/2017"
helpviewer_keywords: ["builds [C++], errors", "errors [C++]", "error messages [C++], build errors", "errors [C++], builds"]
ms.assetid: 2470b496-28fa-47e7-a238-a086d99b06ca
---
# C/C++ Compiler and build tools errors and warnings

The articles in this section of the documentation explain diagnostic error and warning messages that are generated by the Microsoft C/C++ compiler and build tools.

[!INCLUDE[error-boilerplate](../includes/error-boilerplate.md)]

## In this section

[BSCMAKE errors and warnings (BKxxxx)](../tool-errors/bscmake-errors-bk1500-through-bk4505.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the Microsoft Browse Information Maintenance Utility (BSCMAKE.EXE).

[Command-line errors and warnings](../tool-errors/command-line-errors-d8000-through-d9999.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the build tools for command-line options issues.

[Compiler fatal errors C999 - C1999](../compiler-errors-1/compiler-fatal-errors-c999-through-c1999.md) \
Errors that halt the C++ compiler (CL.EXE).

[Compiler errors C2001 - C3999](../compiler-errors-1/compiler-errors-c2001-through-c2099.md) \
Errors detected by the C++ compiler (CL.EXE).

[Compiler warnings C4000 - C5999](../compiler-warnings/compiler-warnings-c4000-through-c4199.md) \
Warnings for issues detected by the C++ compiler (CL.EXE).

[Compiler warnings by compiler version](../compiler-warnings/compiler-warnings-by-compiler-version.md) \
A list of the warnings introduced by each compiler version.

[C Runtime errors (Rxxxx)](../tool-errors/c-runtime-errors-r6002-through-r6035.md) \
Errors generated at runtime by the C Runtime Library (CRT).

[CVTRES errors and warnings (CVTxxxx)](../tool-errors/cvtres-errors-cvt1100-through-cvt4001.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the Microsoft Resource File To COFF Object Conversion Utility (CVTRES.EXE).

[Expression evaluator errors (CXXxxxx)](../tool-errors/expression-evaluator-errors-cxx0000-through-cxx0072.md) \
Errors generated by the debugger and diagnostics tools.

[Linker tools errors and warnings (LNKxxxx)](../tool-errors/linker-tools-errors-and-warnings.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the linker and related tools (LINK.EXE, LIB.EXE, DUMPBIN.EXE, EDITBIN.EXE).

[Math errors (Mxxxx)](../tool-errors/math-errors-m6101-through-m6205.md) \
Errors generated by the runtime floating-point math library.

[NMAKE errors and warnings (Uxxxx)](../tool-errors/nmake-errors-u1000-through-u4011.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the Microsoft makefile tool (NMAKE.EXE).

[Profile-Guided Optimization errors and warnings (PGxxxx)](../tool-errors/profile-guided-optimization-errors-and-warnings.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the Profile-Guided Optimization (PGO) tools.

[Project build errors and warnings (PRJxxxx)](../tool-errors/project-build-errors-and-warnings-prjxxxx.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the native C++ Project build system in Visual Studio.

[Resource compiler errors and warnings (RCxxxx, RWxxxx)](../tool-errors/resource-compiler-errors-rc1000-through-rc4413.md) \
Errors and warnings generated by the Resource Compiler (RC.EXE).

[Vectorizer and parallelizer messages](../tool-errors/vectorizer-and-parallelizer-messages.md) \
Diagnostic messages generated by the vectorizer and parallelizer optimization compiler options.

## Related sections

[Compiler warnings that are off by default](../../preprocessor/compiler-warnings-that-are-off-by-default.md)

## See also

[C/C++ Building Reference](../../build/reference/c-cpp-building-reference.md) \
[Debugging in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/debugger/debugging-in-visual-studio)
