---
title: "Fatal Error C1052 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "05/08/2017"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "C1052"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C1052"
ms.assetid: f2c09a2f-d3c1-4420-9501-ffcb65caf87b
caps.latest.revision: 0
author: "corob-msft"
ms.author: "corob"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "tr-tr"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# Fatal Error C1052  
  
> program database file, '*filename*', was generated by the linker with /DEBUG:fastlink; compiler cannot update such PDB files; please delete it or use /Fd to specify a different PDB filename  
  
The compiler cannot update the same program database (PDB) files which are generated by the linker when the [/DEBUG:fastlink](../../build/reference/debug-generate-debug-info.md) option is specified. Normally the compiler-generated PDB files and the linker-generated PDB files have different names. However, if they are set to use the same names, this error can result.  
  
To fix this issue, you can explicitly delete the PDB files before you compile again, or you can create different names for the compiler-generated and linker-generated PDB files.  
  
To specify the compiler-generated PDB file name on the command line, use the [/Fd](../../build/reference/fd-program-database-file-name.md) compiler option. To specify the compiler-generated PDB file name in the IDE, open the **Property Pages** dialog for your project, and in the **Configuration Properties**, **C/C++**, **Output Files** page, set the **Program Database File Name** property. By default, this property is `$(IntDir)vc$(PlatformToolsetVersion).pdb`.  
  
Alternatively, you can set the linker-generated PDB file name. To specify the linker-generated PDB file name on the command line, use the [/PDB](../../build/reference/pdb-use-program-database.md) linker option. To specify the linker-generated PDB file name in the IDE, open the **Property Pages** dialog for your project, and in the **Configuration Properties**, **Linker**, **Debugging** page, set the **Generate Program Database File** property. By default, this property is set to `$(OutDir)$(TargetName).pdb`.  
