---
title: "Variable &#39;&lt;variablename&gt;&#39; is passed by reference before it has been assigned a value (Structure Variable)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "10/13/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-csharp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "bc42108"
  - "vbc42108"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "BC42108"
ms.assetid: 8f858dd7-db04-408e-ae67-e4ff2f0e5e30
caps.latest.revision: 8
ms.author: "billchi"
manager: "douge"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
translation.priority.mt: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "tr-tr"
---
# Variable &#39;&lt;variablename&gt;&#39; is passed by reference before it has been assigned a value (Structure Variable)
Variable '\<variablename>' is passed by reference before it has been assigned a value. A null reference exception could result at runtime. Make sure the structure or all the reference members are initialized before use  
  
 A procedure call passes a structure variable as an argument to a `ByRef` parameter before any value is assigned to the variable.  
  
 If a structure variable has never been assigned a value, each structure member holds the default value for its data type. For a reference data type, that default value is [Nothing](../Topic/Nothing%20\(Visual%20Basic\).md). Reading a reference member that has a value of `Nothing` can cause a \<xref:System.NullReferenceException> in some circumstances.  
  
 Passing an argument to a procedure `ByRef` exposes the variable underlying the argument to possible modification by the procedure.  
  
 By default, this message is a warning. For more information about hiding warnings or treating warnings as errors, please see [Configuring Warnings in Visual Basic](../Topic/Configuring%20Warnings%20in%20Visual%20Basic.md).  
  
 **Error ID:** BC42108  
  
### To correct this error  
  
-   If you intend the procedure to assign values to structure members through the `ByRef` argument, and if it does not matter whether the members already hold values, then no action is necessary.  
  
-   If the logic in the procedure reads a structure member before assigning any value to it, and if the member is of a value type, then make sure that the procedure logic does not depend on whether the member holds its default value or not.  
  
-   If the logic in the procedure reads a structure member before assigning any value to it, and if the member is of a reference type, then make sure that the procedure logic can handle a value of `Nothing`. For example, it could use a [Try...Catch...Finally Statement](../Topic/Try...Catch...Finally%20Statement%20\(Visual%20Basic\).md) to catch a \<xref:System.NullReferenceException>.  
  
## See Also  
 [Dim Statement](../Topic/Dim%20Statement%20\(Visual%20Basic\).md)   
 [Value Types and Reference Types](../Topic/Value%20Types%20and%20Reference%20Types.md)   
 [Passing Arguments by Value and by Reference](../Topic/Passing%20Arguments%20by%20Value%20and%20by%20Reference%20\(Visual%20Basic\).md)   
 [ByRef](../Topic/ByRef%20\(Visual%20Basic\).md)   
 [Variable Declaration](../Topic/Variable%20Declaration%20in%20Visual%20Basic.md)   
 [Structures](../Topic/Structures%20\(Visual%20Basic\).md)   
 [Structure Statement](../Topic/Structure%20Statement.md)   
 [Troubleshooting Variables](../Topic/Troubleshooting%20Variables%20in%20Visual%20Basic.md)