---
title: "Editor Options, Visual Studio Package Wizard"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "10/13/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-csharp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "vs.vsip.VSPackageWizard.edtrOptions"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Visual Studio Package Wizard, Editor Options"
ms.assetid: cec5adc3-34bc-4c2e-93bf-ca77aeae5da3
caps.latest.revision: 21
manager: "douge"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
translation.priority.mt: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "tr-tr"
---
# Editor Options, Visual Studio Package Wizard
This step lets you define the file name extension that is associated with your editor, the file name that is used as a default name for documents created by using your editor, and the icon that is associated with your editor and file type.  
  
 **Editor Name**  
 Type the name of your new editor. This name is used for the editor in the **Open With** dialog box.  
  
 **File Extension**  
 Define the file name extension that is associated with your editor. You can specify multiple extensions by typing a comma-delimited list. Your editor is the default [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../build/includes/vsprvs_md.md)] editor for files that have the file name extension you define.  
  
 **Default Filename**  
 Type the name will be used as a base for the default name for documents that your editor creates.  
  
 **Change Icon**  
 Click to open the **Change Icon** dialog box. You can select an icon for your editor from this dialog box, or you can browse to the location of another file. The file must be an .ico file. The icon you select appears in the editor window and is associated with the files generated by your editor.  
  
 **Cancel**  
 Cancels and stops the wizard.  
  
 **Back**  
 Moves to the previous page of the wizard.  
  
 **Finish**  
 Creates the VSPackage.  
  
## See Also  
 [Basic VSPackage Information, Visual Studio Package Wizard](../notintoc/basic-vspackage-information--visual-studio-package-wizard.md)   
 [Select VSPackage Options, Visual Studio Package Wizard](../notintoc/select-vspackage-options--visual-studio-package-wizard.md)   
 [Tool Window Options, Visual Studio Package Wizard](../notintoc/tool-window-options--visual-studio-package-wizard.md)   
 [Command Options, Visual Studio Package Wizard](../notintoc/command-options--visual-studio-package-wizard.md)