---
title: "implementation_only | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "implementation_only"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
  - "C"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "implementation_only attribute"
ms.assetid: d8cabc86-4425-45a0-9587-d57536980088
caps.latest.revision: 4
author: "corob-msft"
ms.author: "corob"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "tr-tr"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# implementation_only
**C++ Specific**  
  
 Suppresses the generation of the .tlh header file (the primary header file).  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
implementation_only  
```  
  
## Remarks  
 This file contains all the declarations used to expose the type-library contents. The .tli header file, with the implementations of the wrapper member functions, will be generated and included in the compilation.  
  
 When this attribute is specified, the content of the .tli header is in the same namespace as the one normally used in the .tlh header. In addition, the member functions are not declared as inline.  
  
 The `implementation_only` attribute is intended for use in conjunction with the [no_implementation](../preprocessor/no-implementation.md) attribute as a way of keeping the implementations out of the precompiled header (PCH) file. An `#import` statement with the `no_implementation` attribute is placed in the source region used to create the PCH. The resulting PCH is used by a number of source files. An `#import` statement with the `implementation_only` attribute is then used outside the PCH region. You are required to use this statement only once in one of the source files. This will generate all the required wrapper member functions without additional recompilation for each source file.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  The `implementation_only` attribute in one `#import` statement must be use in conjunction with another `#import` statement, of the same type library, with the `no_implementation` attribute. Otherwise, compiler errors will be generated. This is because wrapper class definitions generated by the `#import` statement with the `no_implementation` attribute are required to compile the implementations generated by the `implementation_only` attribute.  
  
 **END C++ Specific**  
  
## See Also  
 [#import Attributes](../preprocessor/hash-import-attributes-cpp.md)   
 [#import Directive](../preprocessor/hash-import-directive-cpp.md)