---
description: "Learn more about: _CrtSetReportFile"
title: "_CrtSetReportFile"
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
api_name: ["_CrtSetReportFile"]
api_location: ["msvcrt.dll", "msvcr80.dll", "msvcr90.dll", "msvcr100.dll", "msvcr100_clr0400.dll", "msvcr110.dll", "msvcr110_clr0400.dll", "msvcr120.dll", "msvcr120_clr0400.dll", "ucrtbase.dll"]
api_type: ["DLLExport"]
topic_type: ["apiref"]
f1_keywords: ["CrtSetReportFile", "_CrtSetReportFile"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["CrtSetReportFile function", "_CrtSetReportFile function"]
ms.assetid: 3126537e-511b-44af-9c1c-0605265eabc4
---
# _CrtSetReportFile

After you use [_CrtSetReportMode](crtsetreportmode.md) to specify **_CRTDBG_MODE_FILE**, you can specify the file handle to receive the message text. **_CrtSetReportFile** is also used by [_CrtDbgReport, _CrtDbgReportW](crtdbgreport-crtdbgreportw.md) to specify the destination of text (debug version only).

## Syntax

```C
_HFILE _CrtSetReportFile(
   int reportType,
   _HFILE reportFile
);
```

### Parameters

*reportType*<br/>
Report type: **_CRT_WARN**, **_CRT_ERROR**, and **_CRT_ASSERT**.

*reportFile*<br/>
New report file for *reportType*.

## Return Value

On successful completion, **_CrtSetReportFile** returns the previous report file defined for the report type specified in *reportType*. If an invalid value is passed in for *reportType*, this function invokes the invalid parameter handler, as described in [Parameter Validation](../../c-runtime-library/parameter-validation.md). If execution is allowed to continue, **errno** is set to **EINVAL** and the function returns **_CRTDBG_HFILE_ERROR**. For more information, see [errno, _doserrno, _sys_errlist, and _sys_nerr](../../c-runtime-library/errno-doserrno-sys-errlist-and-sys-nerr.md).

## Remarks

**_CrtSetReportFile** is used with the [_CrtSetReportMode](crtsetreportmode.md) function to define the destination or destinations for a specific report type generated by **_CrtDbgReport**. When **_CrtSetReportMode** has been called to assign the **_CRTDBG_MODE_FILE** reporting mode for a specific report type, **_CrtSetReportFile** should then be called to define the specific file or stream to use as the destination. When [_DEBUG](../../c-runtime-library/debug.md) is not defined, calls to **_CrtSetReportFile** are removed during preprocessing.

The following list shows the available choices for *reportFile* and the resulting behavior of **_CrtDbgReport**. These options are defined as bit flags in Crtdbg.h.

- **file handle**

   A handle to the file that will be the destination for messages. No attempt is made to verify the validity of the handle. You must open and close the handle to the file. For example:

   ```C
   HANDLE hLogFile;
   hLogFile = CreateFile("c:\\log.txt", GENERIC_WRITE,
      FILE_SHARE_WRITE, NULL, CREATE_ALWAYS,
      FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL, NULL);
   _CrtSetReportMode(_CRT_WARN, _CRTDBG_MODE_FILE);
   _CrtSetReportFile(_CRT_WARN, hLogFile);

   _RPT0(_CRT_WARN,"file message\n");
   CloseHandle(hLogFile);
   ```

- **_CRTDBG_FILE_STDERR**

   Writes message to **stderr**, which can be redirected as follows:

   ```C
   freopen( "c:\\log2.txt", "w", stderr);
   _CrtSetReportMode(_CRT_ERROR, _CRTDBG_MODE_FILE);
   _CrtSetReportFile(_CRT_ERROR, _CRTDBG_FILE_STDERR);

   _RPT0(_CRT_ERROR,"1st message\n");
   ```

- **_CRTDBG_FILE_STDOUT**

   Writes message to **stdout**, which you can redirect.

- **_CRTDBG_REPORT_FILE**

   Returns the current report mode.

The report file used by each report type can be separately controlled. For example, it is possible to specify that a *reportType* of **_CRT_ERROR** be reported to **stderr**, while a *reportType* of **_CRT_ASSERT** be reported to a user-defined file handle or stream.

## Requirements

|Routine|Required header|Optional header|
|-------------|---------------------|---------------------|
|**_CrtSetReportFile**|\<crtdbg.h>|\<errno.h>|

The console is not supported in Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps. The standard stream handles that are associated with the console, **stdin**, **stdout**, and **stderr**, must be redirected before C run-time functions can use them in UWP apps. For more compatibility information, see [Compatibility](../../c-runtime-library/compatibility.md).

**Libraries:** Debug versions of [CRT Library Features](../../c-runtime-library/crt-library-features.md) only.

## See also

[Debug Routines](../../c-runtime-library/debug-routines.md)<br/>
