---
description: "Learn more about: COleIPFrameWnd Class"
title: "COleIPFrameWnd Class"
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
f1_keywords: ["COleIPFrameWnd", "AFXOLE/COleIPFrameWnd", "AFXOLE/COleIPFrameWnd::COleIPFrameWnd", "AFXOLE/COleIPFrameWnd::OnCreateControlBars", "AFXOLE/COleIPFrameWnd::RepositionFrame"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["COleIPFrameWnd [MFC], COleIPFrameWnd", "COleIPFrameWnd [MFC], OnCreateControlBars", "COleIPFrameWnd [MFC], RepositionFrame"]
ms.assetid: 24abb2cb-826c-4dda-a287-d8a8900a5763
---
# COleIPFrameWnd Class

The base for your application's in-place editing window.

## Syntax

```
class COleIPFrameWnd : public CFrameWnd
```

## Members

### Public Constructors

|Name|Description|
|----------|-----------------|
|[COleIPFrameWnd::COleIPFrameWnd](#coleipframewnd)|Constructs a `COleIPFrameWnd` object.|

### Public Methods

|Name|Description|
|----------|-----------------|
|[COleIPFrameWnd::OnCreateControlBars](#oncreatecontrolbars)|Called by the framework when an item is activated for in-place editing.|
|[COleIPFrameWnd::RepositionFrame](#repositionframe)|Called by the framework to reposition the in-place editing window.|

## Remarks

This class creates and positions control bars within the container application's document window. It also handles notifications generated by an embedded [COleResizeBar](../../mfc/reference/coleresizebar-class.md) object when the user resizes the in-place editing window.

For more information on using `COleIPFrameWnd`, see the article [Activation](../../mfc/activation-cpp.md).

## Inheritance Hierarchy

[CObject](../../mfc/reference/cobject-class.md)

[CCmdTarget](../../mfc/reference/ccmdtarget-class.md)

[CWnd](../../mfc/reference/cwnd-class.md)

[CFrameWnd](../../mfc/reference/cframewnd-class.md)

`COleIPFrameWnd`

## Requirements

**Header:** afxole.h

## <a name="coleipframewnd"></a> COleIPFrameWnd::COleIPFrameWnd

Constructs a `COleIPFrameWnd` object and initializes its in-place state information, which is stored in a structure of type OLEINPLACEFRAMEINFO.

```
COleIPFrameWnd();
```

### Remarks

For more information, see [OLEINPLACEFRAMEINFO](/windows/win32/api/oleidl/ns-oleidl-oleinplaceframeinfo) in the Windows SDK.

## <a name="oncreatecontrolbars"></a> COleIPFrameWnd::OnCreateControlBars

The framework calls the `OnCreateControlBars` function when an item is activated for in-place editing.

```
virtual BOOL OnCreateControlBars(
    CWnd* pWndFrame,
    CWnd* pWndDoc);

virtual BOOL OnCreateControlBars(
    CFrameWnd* pWndFrame,
    CFrameWnd* pWndDoc);
```

### Parameters

*pWndFrame*<br/>
Pointer to the container application's frame window.

*pWndDoc*<br/>
Pointer to the container's document-level window. Can be NULL if the container is an SDI application.

### Return Value

Nonzero on success; otherwise, 0.

### Remarks

The default implementation does nothing. Override this function to perform any special processing required when control bars are created.

## <a name="repositionframe"></a> COleIPFrameWnd::RepositionFrame

The framework calls the `RepositionFrame` member function to lay out control bars and reposition the in-place editing window so all of it is visible.

```
virtual void RepositionFrame(
    LPCRECT lpPosRect,
    LPCRECT lpClipRect);
```

### Parameters

*lpPosRect*<br/>
Pointer to a `RECT` structure or a `CRect` object containing the in-place frame window's current position coordinates, in pixels, relative to the client area.

*lpClipRect*<br/>
Pointer to a `RECT` structure or a `CRect` object containing the in-place frame window's current clipping-rectangle coordinates, in pixels, relative to the client area.

### Remarks

Layout of control bars in the container window differs from that performed by a non-OLE frame window. The non-OLE frame window calculates the positions of control bars and other objects from a given frame-window size, as in a call to [CFrameWnd::RecalcLayout](../../mfc/reference/cframewnd-class.md#recalclayout). The client area is what remains after space for control bars and other objects is subtracted. A `COleIPFrameWnd` window, on the other hand, positions toolbars in accordance with a given client area. In other words, `CFrameWnd::RecalcLayout` works "from the outside in," whereas `COleIPFrameWnd::RepositionFrame` works "from the inside out."

## See also

[MFC Sample HIERSVR](../../overview/visual-cpp-samples.md)<br/>
[CFrameWnd Class](../../mfc/reference/cframewnd-class.md)<br/>
[Hierarchy Chart](../../mfc/hierarchy-chart.md)<br/>
[CFrameWnd Class](../../mfc/reference/cframewnd-class.md)
