---
description: "Learn more about: Message Maps (MFC)"
title: "Message Maps (MFC)"
ms.date: "09/07/2019"
helpviewer_keywords: ["message maps [MFC], MFC", "Windows messages [MFC], message maps", "messages [MFC], Windows", "MFC, messages"]
ms.assetid: 3f9855e4-9d7d-4b64-8f3f-a19ea3cf79ba
---
# Message Maps (MFC)

This section of the reference lists all [message mapping macros](../../mfc/reference/message-map-macros-mfc.md) and all [CWnd](../../mfc/reference/cwnd-class.md) message-map entries along with the corresponding member function prototypes:

|Category|Description|
|--------------|-----------------|
|ON\_COMMAND Message Handler|Handles `WM_COMMAND` messages generated by user menu selections or menu access keys.|
|[Child Window Notification Message Handlers](../../mfc/reference/child-window-notification-message-handlers.md)|Handle notification messages from child windows.|
|[WM_ Message Handlers](../../mfc/reference/handlers-for-wm-messages.md)|Handle `WM_` messages, such as `WM_PAINT`.|
|[User-Defined Message Handlers](../../mfc/reference/user-defined-handlers.md)|Handle user-defined messages.|

(For an explanation of the terminology and conventions used in this reference, see [How to Use the Message Map Cross-Reference](../../mfc/reference/how-to-use-the-message-map-cross-reference.md).)

Since Windows is a message-oriented operating system, a large portion of programming for the Windows environment involves message handling. Each time an event such as a keystroke or mouse click occurs, a message is sent to the application, which must then handle the event.

The Microsoft Foundation Class Library offers a programming model optimized for message-based programming. In this model, "message maps" are used to designate which functions will handle various messages for a particular class. Message maps contain one or more macros that specify which messages will be handled by which functions. For example, a message map containing an `ON_COMMAND` macro might look something like this:

[!code-cpp[NVC_MFCMessageMaps#16](../../mfc/reference/codesnippet/cpp/message-maps-mfc_1.cpp)]

The `ON_COMMAND` macro is used to handle command messages generated by menus, buttons, and accelerator keys. [Macros](../../mfc/reference/message-map-macros-mfc.md) are available to map the following:

## Windows Messages

- Control notifications

- User-defined messages

## Command Messages

- Registered user-defined messages

- User-interface update messages

## Ranges of Messages

- Commands

- Update handler messages

- Control notifications

Although message-map macros are important, you generally won't have to use them directly. This is because the [Class Wizard](mfc-class-wizard.md) automatically creates message-map entries in your source files when you use it to associate message-handling functions with messages. Any time you want to edit or add a message-map entry, you can use the Class Wizard.

> [!NOTE]
> The Class Wizard does not support message-map ranges. You must write these message-map entries yourself.

However, message maps are an important part of the Microsoft Foundation Class Library. You should understand what they do, and documentation is provided for them.

## See also

[Structures, Styles, Callbacks, and Message Maps](../../mfc/reference/structures-styles-callbacks-and-message-maps.md)
