---
title: "1.4 Compliance"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/03/2016
ms.devlang: 
  - C++
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - devlang-cpp
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 662ad260-b9a1-43b7-b269-ef6ff0714e05
caps.latest.revision: 6
manager: ghogen
translation.priority.ht: 
  - cs-cz
  - de-de
  - es-es
  - fr-fr
  - it-it
  - ja-jp
  - ko-kr
  - pl-pl
  - pt-br
  - ru-ru
  - tr-tr
  - zh-cn
  - zh-tw
---
# 1.4 Compliance
An implementation of the OpenMP C/C++ API is *OpenMP-compliant* if it recognizes and preserves the semantics of all the elements of this specification, as laid out in Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, and Appendix C. Appendices A, B, D, E, and F are for information purposes only and are not part of the specification. Implementations that include only a subset of the API are not OpenMP-compliant.  
  
 The OpenMP C and C++ API is an extension to the base language that is supported by an implementation. If the base language does not support a language construct or extension that appears in this document, the OpenMP implementation is not required to support it.  
  
 All standard C and C++ library functions and built-in functions (that is, functions of which the compiler has specific knowledge) must be thread-safe. Unsynchronized use of thread–safe functions by different threads inside a parallel region does not produce undefined behavior. However, the behavior might not be the same as in a serial region. (A random number generation function is an example.)  
  
 The OpenMP C/C++ API specifies that certain behavior is *implementation-defined.* A conforming OpenMP implementation is required to define and document its behavior in these cases. See [Appendix E](../VS_visualcpp/E.-Implementation-Defined-Behaviors-in-OpenMP-C-C--.md), page 97, for a list of implementation-defined behaviors.