---
title: "Message Maps (MFC)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/03/2016
ms.devlang: 
  - C++
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - devlang-cpp
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 3f9855e4-9d7d-4b64-8f3f-a19ea3cf79ba
caps.latest.revision: 8
manager: ghogen
translation.priority.ht: 
  - cs-cz
  - de-de
  - es-es
  - fr-fr
  - it-it
  - ja-jp
  - ko-kr
  - pl-pl
  - pt-br
  - ru-ru
  - tr-tr
  - zh-cn
  - zh-tw
---
# Message Maps (MFC)
This section of the reference lists all [message mapping macros](../VS_visualcpp/Message-Map-Macros--MFC-.md) and all [CWnd](../VS_visualcpp/CWnd-Class.md) message-map entries along with the corresponding member function prototypes:  
  
|Category|Description|  
|--------------|-----------------|  
|[WM_COMMAND Message Handler](../VS_visualcpp/WM_COMMAND-Message-Handler.md)|Handles **WM_COMMAND** messages generated by user menu selections or menu access keys.|  
|[Child Window Notification Message Handlers](../VS_visualcpp/Child-Window-Notification-Message-Handlers.md)|Handle notification messages from child windows.|  
|[WM_ Message Handlers](../VS_visualcpp/Handlers-for-WM_-Messages.md)|Handle **WM_** messages, such as `WM_PAINT`.|  
|[User-Defined Message Handlers](../VS_visualcpp/User-Defined-Handlers.md)|Handle user-defined messages.|  
  
 (For an explanation of the terminology and conventions used in this reference, see [How to Use the Message Map Cross-Reference](../VS_visualcpp/How-to--Use-the-Message-Map-Cross-Reference.md).)  
  
 Since Windows is a message-oriented operating system, a large portion of programming for the Windows environment involves message handling. Each time an event such as a keystroke or mouse click occurs, a message is sent to the application, which must then handle the event.  
  
 The Microsoft Foundation Class Library offers a programming model optimized for message-based programming. In this model, "message maps" are used to designate which functions will handle various messages for a particular class. Message maps contain one or more macros that specify which messages will be handled by which functions. For example, a message map containing an `ON_COMMAND` macro might look something like this:  
  
 [!CODE [NVC_MFCMessageMaps#16](../CodeSnippet/VS_Snippets_Cpp/NVC_MFCMessageMaps#16)]  
  
 The `ON_COMMAND` macro is used to handle command messages generated by menus, buttons, and accelerator keys. [Macros](../VS_visualcpp/Message-Map-Macros--MFC-.md) are available to map the following:  
  
## Windows Messages  
  
-   Control notifications  
  
-   User-defined messages  
  
## Command Messages  
  
-   Registered user-defined messages  
  
-   User-interface update messages  
  
## Ranges of Messages  
  
-   Commands  
  
-   Update handler messages  
  
-   Control notifications  
  
 Although message-map macros are important, you generally won't have to use them directly. This is because the Properties window automatically creates message-map entries in your source files when you use it to associate message-handling functions with messages. Any time you want to edit or add a message-map entry, you can use the Properties window.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  The Properties window does not support message-map ranges. You must write these message-map entries yourself.  
  
 However, message maps are an important part of the Microsoft Foundation Class Library. You should understand what they do, and documentation is provided for them.  
  
## See Also  
 [Structures, Styles, Callbacks, and Message Maps](../VS_visualcpp/Structures--Styles--Callbacks--and-Message-Maps.md)