---
description: "Learn more about: Compiler Warning (level 4) C4866"
title: "Compiler Warning (Level 4) C4866"
ms.date: "09/30/2018"
f1_keywords: ["C4866"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C4866"]
---
# Compiler Warning (level 4) C4866

> '_file_(*line_number*)' compiler may not enforce left-to-right evaluation order for call to _operator_name_

## Remarks

Starting in C++17, the operands of the operators __->\*__, **\[]**, **>>**, and **\<\<** must be evaluated in left-to-right order. There are two cases in which the compiler is unable to guarantee this order:

- when one of the operand expressions is an object passed by value or contains an object passed by value, or

- when compiled by using [/clr](../../build/reference/clr-common-language-runtime-compilation.md), and one of the operands is a field of an object or an array element.

The compiler emits warning **C4866** when it can't guarantee left-to-right evaluation. This warning is only generated if [/std:c++17](../../build/reference/std-specify-language-standard-version.md) or later is specified, as the left-to-right order requirement of these operators was introduced in C++17.

This warning is off by default; you can use [/Wall](../../build/reference/compiler-option-warning-level.md) or __/w__*N*__4866__ to enable it on the command line as a level *N* warning, or use #pragma [warning](../../preprocessor/warning.md) in your source file. For more information, see [Compiler warnings that are off by default](../../preprocessor/compiler-warnings-that-are-off-by-default.md).

This warning was introduced in Visual Studio 2017 version 15.9 as a result of compiler conformance work for the C++17 standard. Code that compiled without warnings in versions of the compiler before Visual Studio 2017 version 15.9 can now generate **C4866**. For information on how to disable warnings introduced in a particular compiler version or later, see [Compiler Warnings by compiler version](compiler-warnings-by-compiler-version.md).

To resolve this warning, first consider whether left-to-right evaluation of the operator elements is necessary, such as when evaluation of the elements might produce order-dependent side-effects. In many cases, the order in which elements are evaluated does not have an observable effect.

If the order of evaluation must be left-to-right, consider whether you can pass the elements by **`const`** reference instead. This change eliminates the warning in the following code sample.

## Example

This sample generates C4866, and shows a way to fix it:

```cpp
// C4866.cpp
// compile with: /w14866 /std:c++17

class HasCopyConstructor
{
public:
    int x;

    HasCopyConstructor(int x) : x(x) {}
    HasCopyConstructor(const HasCopyConstructor& h) : x(h.x) { }
};

int operator->*(HasCopyConstructor a, HasCopyConstructor b) { return a.x + b.x; }

// This version of operator->* does not trigger the warning:
// int operator->*(const HasCopyConstructor& a, const HasCopyConstructor& b) { return a.x + b.x; }

int main()
{
    HasCopyConstructor a{ 1 };
    HasCopyConstructor b{ 2 };

    a->*b;        // C4866 for call to operator->*
};
```
