---
title: "Compiler warning C5033"
description: Describes the causes and fixes for compiler warning C5033.
ms.date: 05/03/2021
f1_keywords: ["C5033"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C5033"]
---
# Compiler warning (level 1) C5033

> '*storage-class-keyword*' is no longer a supported storage class

The  **`auto`** and **`register`** storage class keywords have been deprecated or removed from the C++ language.

## Remarks

**Visual Studio 2010 and later:** In C++11, the **`auto`** keyword is no longer a C++ storage-class specifier, and the **`register`** keyword is deprecated.

**Visual Studio 2017 version 15.7 and later:** (available in [`/std:c++17`](../../build/reference/std-specify-language-standard-version.md) mode and later): The **`register`** keyword is removed from the C++ language in C++17 and later standards.

The C++ standard defines an original and a revised meaning for the **`auto`** keyword. Before C++11, the **`auto`** keyword declares a variable in the *automatic* storage class; that is, a variable that has a local lifetime. Starting in C++11, the **`auto`** keyword declares a variable whose type is deduced from the initialization expression in its declaration. For backward compatibility, you can use the [`/Zc:auto`](../../build/reference/zc-auto-deduce-variable-type.md) compiler option to control the meaning of the **`auto`** keyword.

The **`register`** keyword was originally meant as a suggestion to the compiler to place a variable in a register. The keyword was routinely ignored by compilers. Instead, compilers control whether variables are placed in registers to satisfy calling conventions and optimization levels. The **`register`** keyword is reserved in the standard for future use.

## Example

```cpp
// c5033.cpp
// compile by using: cl /c /std:c++17 c5033.cpp

register int value; // warning C5033: 'register' is no longer a supported storage class
```

To fix this issue, remove the **`register`** storage-class specifier keyword.

## See also

[Storage class](../../cpp/storage-classes-cpp.md)
