---
title: "Compiler Warning C5105"
description: Compiler warning C5105 description and solution.
ms.date: "09/22/2019"
f1_keywords: ["C5105"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C5105"]
---
# Compiler Warning (level 1) C5105

> macro expansion producing 'defined' has undefined behavior

## Remarks

The preprocessor detected a `defined` operator in the output of a macro expansion. If a `defined` operator appears as the result of a macro expansion, the C standard specifies the behavior as undefined. The C5105 warning is a portability and standards conformance warning, issued because other conformant compilers may have different behavior. To resolve this issue, move the `defined` operator out of the macro, or suppress warning C5105.

Microsoft-specific behavior: The MSVC compiler evaluates the `defined` operator normally, even under `/permissive-`.

This warning is new in Visual Studio 2017 version 15.8. It's only generated by the new standards-conformant preprocessor, specified by the `/experimental:preprocessor` compiler option.

### To turn off the warning without code changes

You can turn off the warning for a specific line of code by using the [warning](../../preprocessor/warning.md) pragma, `#pragma warning(suppress : 5105)`. You can also turn off the warning within a file by using the warning pragma, `#pragma warning(disable : 5105)`. You can turn off the warning globally in command-line builds by using the **/wd5105** command-line option.

To turn off the warning for an entire project in the Visual Studio IDE:

1. Open the **Property Pages** dialog for your project. For information on how to use the Property Pages dialog, see [Property Pages](../../build/reference/property-pages-visual-cpp.md).
1. Select the **Configuration Properties** > **C/C++** > **Advanced** page.
1. Edit the **Disable Specific Warnings** property to add `5105`. Choose **OK** to apply your changes.

## Example

This sample program shows how to generate warning C5105, and how to fix it.

```cpp
// C5105.cpp
// To demonstrate the warning,
// compile by using: cl /EHsc /experimental:preprocessor /DTEST C5105.cpp
// To fix the warning, change the DEFINED_TEST
// definition to the commented version.

#include <iostream>

#define DEFINED_TEST defined TEST
//#if defined TEST
//#define DEFINED_TEST 1
//#else
//#define DEFINED_TEST 0
//#endif

int main()
{
#if DEFINED_TEST  // C5105
    std::cout << "TEST defined\n";
#else
    std::cout << "TEST not defined\n";
#endif
}
```
