---
title: "Compiler Warning C5208, Error C7626"
description: Compiler warning C5208 and error C7626 description and solution.
ms.date: 04/18/2021
f1_keywords: ["C5208", "C7626"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C5208", "C7626"]
---
# Compiler Warning (level 1) C5208 and Error C7626

> unnamed class used in typedef name cannot declare members other than non-static data members, member enumerations, or member classes

## Remarks

Unnamed classes within a **`typedef`** declaration can't have any members other than:

- non-static data members with no default member initializers,
- member classes, or
- member enumerations.

The same restrictions are applied recursively to each nested class. The restriction is meant to ensure the simplicity of structs that have **`typedef`** names for linkage purposes. They must be simple enough that no linkage calculations are necessary before the compiler gets to the **`typedef`** name for linkage.

This warning is new in Visual Studio 2019 version 16.6. Based on [P1766R1](https://wg21.link/P1766R1) adopted by the C++ standards committee as a defect report, it affects all standards modes of the compiler. In default **`/std:c++14`** and  **`/std:c++17`** modes, the compiler emits warning C5208 for non-conforming code. If **`/permissive-`** is specified, the compiler emits warning C5208 as an error under **`/std:c++14`**. The compiler emits error C7626 for non-conforming code when **`/std:c++17`** or later is specified.

### To turn off the warning without code changes

You can turn off the warning for a specific line of code by using the [`warning`](../../preprocessor/warning.md) pragma, `#pragma warning(suppress : 5208)`. You can also turn off the warning within a file by using the warning pragma, `#pragma warning(disable : 5208)`. You can turn off the warning globally in command-line builds by using the **/wd5208** command-line option.

To turn off the warning for an entire project in the Visual Studio IDE:

1. Open the **Property Pages** dialog for your project. For information on how to use the Property Pages dialog, see [Property Pages](../../build/reference/property-pages-visual-cpp.md).
1. Select the **Configuration Properties** > **C/C++** > **Advanced** page.
1. Edit the **Disable Specific Warnings** property to add *`5208`*. Choose **OK** to apply your changes.

## Example

The following sample shows the constructs that are no longer allowed in unnamed structs. Depending on the standards mode specified, C5208 or C7626 errors or warnings are emitted:

```cpp
struct Base { };
typedef struct : Base // inheriting from 'Base'; ill-formed
{
    void fn(); // ill-formed
    static int i; // ill-formed
    struct U {
        void f(); // nested class has non-data member; ill-formed
    };
    int j = 10; // default member initializer; ill-formed
} S;
```

The code above can be fixed by giving the unnamed class a name:

```cpp
struct Base { };
typedef struct NamedType : Base
{
    void fn();
    static int i;
    struct U {
        void f();
    };
    int j = 10;
} S;
```
