---
title: "Compiler Warning C5248"
description: Compiler warning C5248 description and solution.
ms.date: 08/02/2021
f1_keywords: ["C5248"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C5248"]
---
# Compiler Warning C5248

> section '*section-name*' is reserved for C++ dynamic initialization. Variables manually put into the section may be optimized out and their order relative to compiler generated dynamic initializers is unspecified

## Remarks

The Microsoft C++ compiler uses reserved section names for internal implementation of features such as C++ dynamic initialization. If your code inserts a variable in a reserved section, such as `.CRT$XCU`, it interferes with the compiler. Your variable isn't considered a C++ dynamic initializer. Also, its relative initialization order compared to compiler generated dynamic initializers isn't specified.

To resolve this error, don't create a section that uses the reserved name or insert a variable in the reserved section.

There's no C++ standard conforming way to initialize variables across translation units, in a specific relative order with compiler generated dynamic initializers. Ways to force initialization before or after compiler generated C++ dynamic initializers are implementation-specific. For more information on Microsoft-specific implementation details, see [CRT initialization](../../c-runtime-library/crt-initialization.md).

Compiler Warning C5248 is new in Visual Studio 2019 version 16.11. It's off by default. For more information on how to enable this warning, see [Compiler warnings that are off by default](../../preprocessor/compiler-warnings-that-are-off-by-default.md).

## Example

Code that tries to emulate the C++ compiler behavior for dynamic initialization often takes this form:

```cpp
void f();
typedef void (*type)();

#pragma section(".CRT$XCU", read)
__declspec(allocate(".CRT$XCU")) type i = f;
```

This code creates a section using a reserved name, `.CRT$XCU`. It stops the compiler from creating the section with the expected properties, and it may skip other initializations. The variable `i` placed in the section is a regular variable, and isn't considered an initializer by the compiler. The compiler may optimize `i` away. The relative order when `f` gets called compared to other dynamic initializers is unspecified.

If initialization order isn't important, you can use this pattern to dynamically initialize a variable at startup:

```cpp
void f();

struct init_helper {
    init_helper() { f(); }
};

init_helper i;
```

## See also

[CRT initialization](../../c-runtime-library/crt-initialization.md)
