---
title: "__assume | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "__assume"
  - "__assume_cpp"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "__assume keyword [C++]"
ms.assetid: d8565123-b132-44b1-8235-5a8c8bff85a7
caps.latest.revision: 18
author: "corob-msft"
ms.author: "corob"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "tr-tr"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# __assume
**Microsoft Specific**  
  
 Passes a hint to the optimizer.  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
__assume(  
   expression  
)  
```  
  
#### Parameters  
 `expression`  
 Any expression that is assumed to evaluate to true.  
  
## Remarks  
 The optimizer assumes that the condition represented by `expression` is true at the point where the keyword appears and remains true until `expression` is modified (for example, by assignment to a variable). Selective use of hints passed to the optimizer by `__assume` can improve optimization.  
  
 If the `__assume` statement is written as a contradiction (an expression that always evaluates to false), it is always treated as `__assume(0)`. If your code isn’t behaving as expected, ensure that the `expression` you defined is valid and true, as described earlier. For more information about expected `__assume(0)` behavior, see the later remarks.  
  
> [!WARNING]
>  A program must not contain an invalid `__assume` statement on a reachable path. If the compiler can reach an invalid `__assume` statement, the program might cause unpredictable and potentially dangerous behavior.  
  
 `__assume` is not a genuine intrinsic. It does not have to be declared as a function and it cannot be used in a `#pragma intrinsic` directive. Although no code is generated, the code generated by the optimizer is affected.  
  
 Use `__assume` in an [ASSERT](../c-runtime-library/reference/assert-asserte-assert-expr-macros.md) only when the assert is not recoverable. Do not use `__assume` in an assert for which you have subsequent error recovery code because the compiler might optimize away the error-handling code.  
  
 The `__assume(0)` statement is a special case. Use `__assume(0)` to indicate a code path that cannot be reached. The following example shows how to use `__assume(0)` to indicate that the default case of a switch statement cannot be reached. This shows the most typical use of `__assume(0)`.  
  
## Requirements  
  
|Intrinsic|Architecture|  
|---------------|------------------|  
|`__assume`|x86, ARM, [!INCLUDE[vcprx64](../assembler/inline/includes/vcprx64_md.md)]|  
  
## Example  
  
```  
// compiler_intrinsics__assume.cpp  
#ifdef DEBUG  
# define ASSERT(e)    ( ((e) || assert(__FILE__, __LINE__) )  
#else  
# define ASSERT(e)    ( __assume(e) )  
#endif  
  
void func1(int i)  
{  
}  
  
int main(int p)  
{  
   switch(p){  
      case 1:  
         func1(1);  
         break;  
      case 2:  
         func1(-1);  
         break;  
      default:  
         __assume(0);  
            // This tells the optimizer that the default  
            // cannot be reached. As so, it does not have to generate  
            // the extra code to check that 'p' has a value   
            // not represented by a case arm. This makes the switch   
            // run faster.  
   }  
}  
```  
  
 The use of `__assume(0)` tells the optimizer that the default case cannot be reached. The example demonstrates that the programmer knows that the only possible inputs for `p` will be 1 or 2. If another value is passed in for `p`, the program becomes invalid and causes unpredictable behavior.  
  
 As a result of the `__assume(0)` statement, the compiler does not generate code to test whether `p` has a value that is not represented in a case statement. For this to work, the `__assume(0)` statement must be the first statement in the body of the default case.  
  
 Because the compiler generates code based on `__assume`, that code might not run correctly if the expression inside the `__assume` statement is false at run time. If you are not sure that the expression will always be true at run time, you can use the `assert` function to protect the code.  
  
```  
#define ASSERT(e)    ( ((e) || assert(__FILE__, __LINE__)), __assume(e) )  
```  
  
 Unfortunately, this use of `assert` prevents the compiler from performing the default-case optimization that was described earlier in this document. As an alternative, you can use a separate macro, as follows.  
  
```  
#ifdef DEBUG  
# define NODEFAULT   ASSERT(0)  
#else  
# define NODEFAULT   __assume(0)  
#endif  
  
   default:  
      NODEFAULT;  
```  
  
## END Microsoft Specific  
  
## See Also  
 [Compiler Intrinsics](../intrinsics/compiler-intrinsics.md)   
 [Keywords](../cpp/keywords-cpp.md)