---
title: Warning C26400
description: "Describes the Microsoft C/C++ code analysis warning C26400, its causes, and how to address it."
ms.date: 10/23/2020
f1_keywords: ["C26400", "NO_RAW_POINTER_ASSIGNMENT"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C26400"]
---
# Warning C26400

> Do not assign the result of an allocation or a function call with an `owner<T>` return value to a raw pointer, use `owner<T>` instead (i.11)

## Remarks

This check helps to enforce the *rule I.11: Never transfer ownership by a raw pointer (T\*), which is a subset of the rule *R.3: A raw pointer (a T\*) is non-owning*. Specifically, it warns on any call to `operator new`, which saves its result in a variable of raw pointer type. It also warns on calls to functions that return `gsl::owner<T>` if their results are assigned to raw pointers. The idea is that you should clearly state ownership of memory resources. For more information, see the [C++ Core Guidelines](https://github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines/blob/master/CppCoreGuidelines.md#r-resource-management).

The easiest way to fix this warning is to use **`auto`** declaration if the resource is assigned immediately at the variable declaration. If this fix isn't possible, then we suggest that you use the type `gsl::owner<T>`. The **`auto`** declarations initialized with operator **`new`** are "owners" because we assume that the result of any allocation is implicitly an owner pointer. We transfer this assumption to the **`auto`** variable and treat it as `owner<T>`.

If this check flags a call to a function that returns `owner<T>`, it may be an indication of a legitimate bug in the code. Basically, it points to a place where the code leaks an explicit notion of ownership (and maybe the resource itself).

This rule currently checks only local variables. If you assign an allocation to a formal parameter, global variable, class member, and so on, it's not flagged. Appropriate coverage of such scenarios is planned for future work.

Code analysis name: `NO_RAW_POINTER_ASSIGNMENT`

## Example 1: Simple allocation

```cpp
char *buffer = nullptr;
if (useCache)
    buffer = GetCache();
else
    buffer = new char[bufferSize];  // C26400
```

## Example 2: Simple allocation (fixed with `gsl::owner<T>`)

```cpp
gsl::owner<char*> buffer = nullptr;
if (useCache)
    buffer = GetCache();
else
    buffer = new char[bufferSize];  // OK
```

## Example 3: Simple allocation (fixed with `auto`)

```cpp
auto buffer = useCache ? GetCache() : new char[bufferSize]; // OK
```
