---
title: Warning C26838
description: Learn about Microsoft C++ code analysis warning C26838.
author: Rastaban
ms.author: philc
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 1/10/2025
---
# Warning C26838

> Allocation size is the result of a signed to unsigned narrowing conversion that could result in overflow if the signed value is negative.

This warning was added in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.13.

## Remarks

Reports that the size specified for an allocation may be the result of the conversion of a possibly negative signed value to an unsigned value. For example:

```cpp
void* CustomAlloc(size_t);

int* CreateIntArray(int numberOfElements)
{
    int* p = (int*)CustomAlloc(numberOfElements * sizeof(int)); // Warning: C26838

    return p;
}
```

The expression `numberOfElements * sizeof(int)`, `numberOfElements` is signed and `sizeof(int)` is unsigned. On 64-bit machines, `numberOfElements` is promoted to an unsigned value when multiplied
by `sizeof(int)`. When `numberOfElements` is negative, the resulting value may overflow or have unexpected results when passed to `CustomAlloc`.

This check applies to common allocation functions like `new`, `malloc`, and `VirtualAlloc`. The check also applies to custom allocator functions that have `alloc` (case insensitive) in the function name.

This check sometimes fails to recognize that certain checks can prevent overflows because the check is conservative.

## Example

To fix the previous code example in which `numberOfElements * sizeof(int)` might overflow due to a negative signed value, introduce a check to ensure it won't. For example:

```cpp
void* CustomAlloc(size_t);

int* CreateIntArray(int numberOfElements)
{
    if (numberOfElements < 0)
        return nullptr;

    int* p = (int*)CustomAlloc(numberOfElements * sizeof(int));
    // ...
    return p;
}
```

In the previous example, checking for a negative value addresses the `C26832` warning. Depending on the size of the types involved, this check may result in a different warning such as [`C26831`](c26831.md). For example, on a 32-bit system, both `int` and `size_t` are 32 bits, so the result of the multiplication can still overflow without negative values.

## See also

[`C26831`](c26831.md)\
[`C26832`](c26832.md)\
[`C26833`](c26833.md)\
[`C26833`](c26839.md)