---
description: "Learn more about: Warning C28308"
title: Warning C28308
ms.date: 03/07/2023
f1_keywords: ["C28308", "BAD_FORMAT_ARGUMENT_POSITION", "__WARNING_BAD_FORMAT_ARGUMENT_POSITION"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C28308"]
---
# Warning C28308

> The format list argument position specified by the annotation is incorrect.

## Remarks

This warning indicates a `_*_format_strings_param(position)` SAL annotation is specifying an invalid position for the first parameter to the format string. The annotation helps the checker verify `printf` style formatting strings passed to the function. Other format string validity checks that rely on this annotation won't run as a result of this warning.

The `_*_format_strings_param(position)` SAL annotation is attached to the formatting string argument. `position` must be in one of these forms:

- An identifier, which is taken as the first argument to the format string. When the identifier isn't the name of a parameter to the function, a warning is emitted.
- A positive integer offset relative to the format-string parameter where `1` is the next parameter. When the offset is out of bounds for the parameters, a warning is emitted.
- The value `0`, which is interpreted as the `...` parameter. When the function isn't variadic, a warning is emitted.

One limitation of this check, is that it's run at the function call site and not at the declaration. This limitation is a side effect of the lazy evaluation of SAL annotations.

## Examples

In this example, there's a specialized function for logging coordinates. The params annotation specifies the `...` parameter, which doesn't exist.

```cpp
void LogCoordinate(_Printf_format_string_params_(0) _In_ char *format, int x, int y);

void func(int x, int y)
{
    LogCoordinate("(%d, %d)", x, y);
}
```

This issue is fixed by changing the annotated position to `x` or `1`. To determine the correct value for your code, check the behavior of the called function.

```cpp
void LogCoordinate(_Printf_format_string_params_(1) _In_ char *format, int x, int y);

void func(int x, int y)
{
    LogCoordinate("(%d, %d)", x, y);
}
```

## See also

[Annotating function parameters and return values](./annotating-function-parameters-and-return-values.md)
