---
description: "Learn more about: Warning C6001"
title: Warning C6001
ms.date: 10/04/2022
f1_keywords: ["C6001", "USING_UNINIT_VAR", "__WARNING_USING_UNINIT_VAR"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C6001"]
ms.assetid: 55e779f1-7295-48f7-8ce1-b43898b36cd8
---
# Warning C6001

> Using uninitialized memory '*variable*'.

## Remarks

This warning is reported when an uninitialized local variable is used before it's assigned a value. This usage could lead to unpredictable results. You should always initialize variables before use.

Code analysis name: `USING_UNINIT_VAR`

## Example

The following code generates this warning because variable `i` is only initialized if `b` is true; otherwise an uninitialized `i` is returned:

```cpp
int f( bool b )
{
   int i;
   if ( b )
   {
      i = 0;
   }
   return i; // i is uninitialized if b is false
}
```

To correct this warning, initialize the variable as shown in the following code:

```cpp
int f( bool b )
{
   int i = -1;

   if ( b )
   {
      i = 0;
   }
   return i;
}
```

## Heuristics

Variables are also considered initialized when they're passed by reference to
another function. Thus, the following example would also consider `i` to be
initialized.

```cpp
void init( int& i );

int f( bool b )
{
   int i;

   init(i);

   if ( b )
   {
      i = 0;
   }
   return i; // i is assumed to be initialized by init(i)
}
```

This is to support the pattern of passing a pointer to a variable into
an initialization function.

Since many functions expect pointers to point to initialized data already, this
heuristic can lead to false negatives. [SAL annotations] such as `_In_` and
`_Out_` can be used to more precisely describe a function's behavior. For
example, in the following we call an external function that expects its argument
to already be initialized and the warning is still generated.

```cpp
void use( _In_ int& i );

int f( bool b )
{
   int i;

   use(i); // uninitialized variable warning because of _In_ annotation on use

   if ( b )
   {
      i = 0;
   }
   return i;
}
```

[SAL annotations]: ./annotating-function-parameters-and-return-values.md

## See also

[Compiler Warning (level 1 and level 4) C4700](../error-messages/compiler-warnings/compiler-warning-level-1-and-level-4-c4700.md)
