---
description: "Learn more about: Warning C6101"
title: Warning C6101
ms.date: 02/7/2023
f1_keywords: ["C6101", "RETURN_UNINIT_VAR", "__WARNING_RETURN_UNINIT_VAR"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C6101"]
---
# Warning C6101

> Returning uninitialized memory '*parameter-name*'.

A successful path through the function doesn't set the `_Out_` annotated parameter.

## Remarks

The purpose of this warning is to avoid the use of uninitialized values by callers of the function. The analyzer assumes callers don't initialize any parameters annotated with `_Out_` before the function call, and checks that the function initializes them. The analyzer doesn't emit this warning if the function returns a value that indicates it had an error or wasn't successful. To fix this issue, make sure to initialize the `_Out_` parameter under all successful return paths. The error message contains the line numbers of an example path that doesn't initialize the parameter.

If the initialization behavior is by design, then incorrect or missing SAL annotations are a likely cause for the warning. You can typically resolve these cases in one of two ways: Either change `_Out_` to a more appropriate annotation, or use the `_Success_()` annotation to help define the success/error states of the function. It's important for the static analysis tools to have correct annotations on the function when analyzing the call sites of the function.

### Fix by changes to parameter annotations

If the parameter should already be in an initialized state and the function conditionally modifies it, then the `_Inout_` annotation may be more appropriate. If no other high level annotation fits the intended behavior, you can use low level annotations such as `_Pre_null_`, `_Pre_satisfies_()`, and `_Post_satisfies_()` that provide extra flexibility and control over the expected state of the parameter. For more information on parameter annotations, see [Annotating function parameters and return values](./annotating-function-parameters-and-return-values.md).

### Fix by defining successful return paths

The analyzer only emits this warning when the code doesn't initialize an `_Out_` parameter in the success paths of the function. If there's no `_Success_` annotation and no function return type annotation, then it considers all return paths successful. For more information on `_Success_` and similar annotations, see [Success/Failure annotations](./annotating-function-behavior.md#successfailure-annotations).

Code analysis name: `RETURN_UNINIT_VAR`

## Example

The following code generates this warning. Because the function returns `void`, the analyzer considers all paths successful. In this case, the correct fix would probably be to adjust the logic of the `if` statement, but in real world code it's typically not as straightforward and the solution depends on the intended behavior of the function.

```cpp
#include <sal.h>
void AlwaysInit(_Out_ int* output, int input) // : warning C6101: Returning uninitialized memory '*p'.: Lines: 2, 4, 9, 14, 2
{
  if( input > 0 )
  {
    *output = input;
    return;
  }
  else if( input < 0 )
  {
    *output = 0;
    return;
  }
  return; // Oops, input was 0
}
```

To make the solution more interesting, we assume that it isn't valid to initialize `output` when `input` is `0`. One approach is to modify the function return value to a different type, such as `bool`. Then, add a `_Success_` annotation to define the successful return paths.

```cpp
_Success_(return == true)
bool InitNotZero(_Out_ int* output, int input)
{
  if( input > 0 )
  {
    *output = input;
    return true;
  }
  else if( input < 0 )
  {
    *output = 0;
    return true;
  }
  return false;
}
```

If this pattern is common in your codebase, you can add the annotation to the return type. Error codes such as HRESULT from the Windows SDK give you the behavior of the `_Success_` annotation without needing to add it to each function. If you already use an annotated type as a return type and want to override the behavior, then add the annotation to the function, as shown in the previous example.

```cpp
using SuccessWhenTrue = _Success_(return == true) bool;

SuccessWhenTrue InitNotZero(_Out_ int* output, int input)
{
  // ...
}
```

## See also

[Rule sets for C++ code](./using-rule-sets-to-specify-the-cpp-rules-to-run.md)\
[Using SAL Annotations to Reduce C/C++ Code Defects](./using-sal-annotations-to-reduce-c-cpp-code-defects.md)
