---
description: "Learn more about: Warning C6278"
title: Warning C6278
ms.date: 10/03/2022
f1_keywords: ["C6278", "ARRAY_NEW_DELETE_MISMATCH", "__WARNING_ARRAY_NEW_DELETE_MISMATCH"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C6278"]
ms.assetid: 5cc3c393-c48a-4f91-9f38-03d7868be5e5
---
# Warning C6278

> '*variable*' is allocated with array new [], but deleted with scalar delete. Destructors will not be called.

## Remarks

This warning appears only in C++ code and indicates that the calling function has inconsistently allocated memory with the array **`new []`** operator, but freed it with the scalar **`delete`** operator. This usage is undefined behavior according to the C++ standard and the Microsoft C++ implementation.

There are at least three reasons that this mismatch is likely to cause problems:

- The constructors for the individual objects in the array are invoked, but the destructors aren't invoked.

- If global, or class-specific, **`operator new`** and **`operator delete`** aren't compatible with **`operator new[]`** and **`operator delete[]`**, unexpected results are likely to occur.

- It's always risky to rely on undefined behavior.

The exact ramifications of this defect are difficult to predict. It might result in leaks for classes with destructors that perform memory de-allocation. It could cause inconsistent behavior for classes with destructors that perform some semantically significant operation, or memory corruptions and crashes when operators have been overridden. In other cases the mismatch might be unimportant, depending on the implementation of the compiler and its libraries. Analysis tools can't always distinguish between these situations.

If memory is allocated with array **`new []`**, it should be freed with array **`delete[]`**.

Code analysis name: `ARRAY_NEW_DELETE_MISMATCH`

## Example

The following sample code generates warning C6278:

```cpp
class A
{
  // members
};

void f( )
{
  A *pA = new A[5];
  // code ...
  delete pA;
}
```

To correct this warning, use the following sample code:

```cpp
void f( )
{
  A *pA = new A[5];
  // code ...
  delete[] pA;
}
```

If the underlying object in the array is a primitive type such as **`int`**, **`float`**, **`enum`**, or pointer, there are no destructors to call. In these cases, warning [C6283](../code-quality/c6283.md) is reported instead.

The use of `new` and `delete` has many pitfalls in terms of memory leaks and exceptions. To avoid these kinds of potential leaks altogether, use the mechanisms that are provided by the C++ Standard Library (STL). These include [`shared_ptr`](../standard-library/shared-ptr-class.md), [`unique_ptr`](../standard-library/unique-ptr-class.md), and containers such as [`vector`](../standard-library/vector.md). For more information, see [Smart pointers](../cpp/smart-pointers-modern-cpp.md) and [C++ Standard Library](../standard-library/cpp-standard-library-reference.md).
