---
description: "Learn more about: Warning C6328"
title: Warning C6328
ms.date: 09/15/2022
f1_keywords: ["C6328", "FORMAT_SIZE_MISMATCH", "__WARNING_FORMAT_SIZE_MISMATCH"]
helpviewer_keywords: ["C6328"]
ms.assetid: e25b00fa-d344-4dc9-b322-b4f1ae06f315
---
# Warning C6328

> Size mismatch: '*type*' passed as parameter '*number*' when '*type*' is required in call to '*function-name*'

## Remarks

An argument of type `char` passed to C runtime, character-based routines named `is<xxx>` (for example, `isspace`) can have unpredictable results. For example, an SBCS or MBCS single-byte character of type `char` with a value greater than `0x7F` is a negative value. If a `char` is passed, the compiler might convert the value to a signed `int` or a signed `long`. This value could be sign-extended by the compiler, with unexpected results. This issue could result in a function like `isspace`, which only expects values from 0-255 or `EOF`, being sent a negative value.

Warning C6328 exists specifically to catch this bug. For characters in the 7-bit ASCII range, the cast is unnecessary. Characters outside that range can have unpredictable results such as program fault and termination.

Code analysis name: `FORMAT_SIZE_MISMATCH`

## Example

The following code generates this warning. By default, `char` is a signed type in the Microsoft C++ compiler, so the range of values of a `char` is -128 to 127. Therefore, in the following code, `c` would be sign-extended to a signed `int` with a value of -37, which is outside the valid range for [isspace](../standard-library/locale-functions.md#isspace):

```cpp
void f()
{
    char c = -37;
    int retVal = isspace(c);
}
```

The following code remediates this warning by using `static_cast`:

```cpp
void f( )
{
    char c = -37;
    int retVal = isspace(static_cast<unsigned char>(c));
}
```
