---
description: "Learn more about: How to: Create the User Control and Host in a Dialog Box"
title: "How to: Create the User Control and Host in a Dialog Box"
ms.custom: "get-started-article"
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
helpviewer_keywords: ["MFC [C++], hosting a Windows Forms Control", "Windows Forms [C++], MFC support"]
ms.assetid: 03a53032-2f03-4fa2-b567-031615a26011
---
# How to: Create the User Control and Host in a Dialog Box

The steps in this article assume that you are creating a dialog-based ([CDialog Class](../mfc/reference/cdialog-class.md)) Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC) project, but you can also add support for a Windows Forms control to an existing MFC dialog box.

### To create the .NET user control

1. Create a Visual C# Windows Forms Control Library project named `WindowsFormsControlLibrary1`.

   On the **File** menu, click **New** and then click **Project**. In the **Visual C#** folder, select **Windows Forms Control Library**.

   Accept the `WindowsFormsControlLibrary1` project name by clicking **OK**.

   By default, the name of the .NET control will be `UserControl1`.

1. Add child controls to `UserControl1`.

   In the **Toolbox**, open the **All Windows Forms** list. Drag a **Button** control to the `UserControl1` design surface.

   Also add a **TextBox** control.

1. In **Solution Explorer**, double-click **UserControl1.Designer.cs** to open it for editing. Change the declarations of the TextBox and the Button from `private` to `public`.

1. Build the project.

   On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

### To create the MFC host application

1. Create an MFC Application project.

   On the **File** menu, click **New** and then click **Project**. In the **Visual C++** folder, select **MFC Application**.

   In the **Name** box, type `MFC01`. Change the Solution setting to **Add to Solution**. Click **OK**.

   In the **MFC Application Wizard**, for Application Type, select **Dialog based**. Accept the remaining default settings and click **Finish**. This creates an MFC application that has an MFC dialog box.

1. Add a placeholder control to the MFC dialog box.

   On the **View** menu, click **Resource View**. In **Resource View**, expand the **Dialog** folder and double-click `IDD_MFC01_DIALOG`. The dialog resource appears in **Resource Editor**.

   In the **Toolbox**, open the **Dialog Editor** list. Drag a **Static Text** control to the dialog resource. The **Static Text** control will serve as a placeholder for the .NET Windows Forms control. Resize it to approximately the size of the Windows Forms control.

   In the **Properties** window, change the **ID** of the **Static Text** control to `IDC_CTRL1` and change the **TabStop** property to **True**.

1. Configure the project for Common Language Runtime (CLR) support.

   In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the MFC01 project node, and then click **Properties**.

   In the **Property Pages** dialog box, under **Configuration Properties**, select **General**. In the **Project Defaults** section, set **Common Language Runtime support** to **Common Language Runtime Support (/clr)**.

   Under **Configuration Properties**, expand **C/C++** and select the **General** node. Set **Debug Information Format** to **Program Database (/Zi)**.

   Select the **Code Generation** node. Set **Enable Minimal Rebuild** to **No (/Gm-)**. Also set **Basic Runtime Checks** to **Default**.

   Click **OK** to apply the changes.

1. Add a reference to the .NET control.

   In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the MFC01 project node and then click **Add**, **References**. On the **Property Page**, click **Add New Reference**, select **WindowsFormsControlLibrary1** (under the **Projects** tab), and click **OK**. This adds a reference in the form of a [/FU](../build/reference/fu-name-forced-hash-using-file.md) compiler option so that the program will compile. It also puts a copy of WindowsFormsControlLibrary1.dll in the \MFC01\ project folder so that the program will run.

1. In Stdafx.h, find this line:

    ```
    #endif // _AFX_NO_AFXCMN_SUPPORT
    ```

   Above it, add these lines:

    ```
    #include <afxwinforms.h>   // MFC Windows Forms support
    ```

1. Add code to create the managed control.

   First, declare the managed control. In MFC01Dlg.h, go to the declaration of the dialog class, and add a data member for the user control in Protected scope, as follows.

    ```
    class CMFC01Dlg : public CDialog
    {
       // ...
       // Data member for the .NET User Control:
       CWinFormsControl<WindowsFormsControlLibrary1::UserControl1> m_ctrl1;
    ```

   Next, provide an implementation for the managed control. In MFC01Dlg.cpp, in the dialog override of `CMFC01Dlg::DoDataExchange` that was generated by the MFC Application wizard (not `CAboutDlg::DoDataExchange`, which is in the same file), add the following code to create the managed control and associate it with the static place holder IDC_CTRL1.

    ```
    void CMFC01Dlg::DoDataExchange(CDataExchange* pDX)
    {
       CDialog::DoDataExchange(pDX);
       DDX_ManagedControl(pDX, IDC_CTRL1, m_ctrl1);
    }
    ```

1. Build and run the project.

   In **Solution Explorer**, right-click **MFC01** and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.

   On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

   On the **Debug** menu, click **Start without debugging**. The MFC dialog box should display the Windows Forms control.

## See also

[Hosting a Windows Form User Control in an MFC Dialog Box](../dotnet/hosting-a-windows-form-user-control-in-an-mfc-dialog-box.md)
